# Western Sydney University LEAD Conference 2018 - 06/05/2018

The fondest memories I have of my grandfather are those that weren't always the most pleasant at the time but were truly priceless in hindsight. In the proudest and most successful moments of my childhood he would always awkwardly paraphrase a quote from Martin Luther King with his stern German accent:

*"The ultimate measure of a man is not where he stands in moments of comfort and convenience, but where he stands at times of challenge and controversy"* 

At those earlier stages of my life, the quote meant very little to me but as I grew older and was faced with increasingly difficult and volatile situations I came to embraced that quote, and it became an integral part of who I am today.

I was reminded of this quote last Friday, as I was very fortunate to attend the Western Sydney University LEAD Conference as guests on behalf of Queensland University of Technology's Student Success Group, along with my colleagues [Justin Van der Walt](https://www.linkedin.com/in/justin-van-der-walt-8b918a13a/), [Sujeong Lee](https://www.linkedin.com/in/suelee0203/) and [Harshitha Srinivas](https://www.linkedin.com/in/harshitha-srinivas-90b649118/). The conference was a single day event held at Western Sydney University's Kingswood campus which had over 150 students and staff from all 11 WSU campuses gather to learn about transformative leadership.

After registration and a quick cup of coffee, the day kicked off with a warm and welcoming introduction from Nicole Brackenreg followed by what I could only describe as one of the most meaningful and amazing reconciliation speeches I have witnessed by Uncle Greg Sims, a Community Elder and Gadigal Elder. Greg's speech really opened my eyes to the strong sense of community and multiculturalism that WSU obviously supports and cares for. I feel that as a university and a community, QUT has a lot of room to grow in regards to handling reconciliation.

The Chief Student Experience Officer for WSU, Michael Burgess then gave a short official opening to the conference and clarified the importance of leadership in the lives of students and it impacts as their career progress, as well as being an integral part of facilitating change and encouraging stability in many of life's situations. The most crucial part of Michael's speech came towards the end in my opinion, whilst talking about being humble and willing to listen and learn in order to solve problems. It reminded me of another quote my grandfather used to paraphrase; the Socratic paradox:

*"The only thing I know is that I know nothing"*

Following this was a keynote address from Mark Digby, Executive Consultant, and Facilitator for The Arbinger Institute. Mark's keynote addressed an often overlooked aspect of leadership, that being the power of an outward mindset and it's role as the fundamental basis for any successful organizational strategy. Mark's keynote was incredibly inspiring and really struck a chord with me, inducing me to reconsider the state of my mindset and how it might impact those around me in and out of the workplace.

After some morning tea, we split off for smaller, LDI themed sessions that were selected at an earlier date (everyone completes two sessions, one after lunch and one before). The sessions included:

* Link In with LinkedIn
* A LEADer's guide to Negotiation
* From Good to Great: Leading through Change
* Diversity and Inclusion Drive Success
* The Talent Code: Unlocking Mentoring Potential
* Transform your Thinking: Teaching Creativity to LEADers

As a group visiting from QUT, our goal was to take in as much information as possible so that we can optimize the amount of information shared and passed on to our peers. Because of this, we decided to split off during these breakout sessions so that each of us takes home a different experience.

My first session was *A LEADer's guide to negotiation* which taught me many things I feel like I already knew about negotiation but in a more quantitative and self-reflective manner. During the session, I had the chance to complete a negotiation style profile, which identifies your balance of negotiation behaviors (win/lose tolerance, collaboration, accommodation, withdrawal, and compromise) based on a series of questions relating to negotiation scenarios. During this, I discovered that I have a very healthy spread of negotiation behaviors, but could stand to improve my willingness to collaborate and let go of my tendency to over accommodate the desires of others. I would love to do this activity with the engineering teams I manage at work sometime; I feel like they could all benefit and improve their planning and communication if they had some insight into the way they behaved in a negotiation setting.

During the lunch break, I had to opportunity to meet a PASS (Peer Assisted Study Sessions) leader and mentor from WSU. Coming from a peer program with a similar goal, I aimed to get as much insight into what makes pass an effective program. I was particularly interested in how they handled their online facilitation environment. STIMulate will eventually expand into an online space and it was nice to get some insight into how PASS handles their systems (Blackboard Collaborate seems to be quite the effective tool).

For me, the highlight of the day was definitely during the main session when Angela Lovegrove, General Manager of Sales and Marketing Business for the NBN, gave a speech on making yourself heard and influencing others. She gave her speech in the form of the seven factors (or steps) that have proved to increase her work environment relations and influence over her career:

* Active Listening
* Effective Communication
* The Book: How to Win Friends and Influence People
* Praise of Others
* Thoughtful Feedback
* Controlling Judgement
* Public Speaking

Angela's presentation really gave me a lot to reconsider in regards to the way I attempt to build influence amongst my peers and in the workplace. Her points addressing the praise of others and active listening resonate with my work as a peer learning facilitator and give me a strong goal to work toward.

My second session was *From Good to Great: Leading Through Change* which tackled a number of useful strategies for managing organizational environments with high susceptibility to change. There was an interesting goal-orientated change management model proposed that I found absolutely fascinating, ADKAR, which stands for **awareness**, **desire**, **knowledge**, **ability**, and **reinforcement**. At its core, it is an incredibly useful framework for understanding the needs of individuals during times of great change and can help to smooth out transition periods, you can read more about it [here](https://www.prosci.com/adkar/adkar-model). While I am almost never in environments with change as rapid as those that ADKAR was likely designed for, I can recognize it's potential as a damage mitigation tool during the more chaotic parts of my life. 

The day ended with a reflection session and some closing remarks which I felt were rather effective in collecting my thoughts and feelings about the activities I participated in. Overall I was very impressed with the quality of the WSU LEAD conference and would recommend any QUT student who ever has the opportunity to attend in the future to take up the offer. There was a networking event following the closing remarks that I was rather looking forward to, although my colleagues and I were unable to stick around due to time constraints. None the less, I feel like I made some meaningful connections with some of the staff and students from WSU.

My trip down to Sydney is one that will never leave my memory. I am confident that as the Student Success Group at QUT transforms and grows, the lessons I have learned about leading through change and the power of an outward mindset can be shared with my peers and create a positive impact on our organization. I would like to thank both QUT and WSU for the amazing opportunity, I will make it my priority to make sure the knowledge gained does not go to waste. 